Szárnyas Gábor (BME MIT):

GraphBLAS: A linear algebraic approach for high-performance graph algorithms

Designing efficient graph algorithms is challenging from both the
theoretical and practical points of view. While the duality of graphs
and sparse adjacency matrices is well-known, open-source graph
processing systems have rarely used matrix-based programming models
and researchers did not reach a consensus on the building blocks
necessary for creating high-performance graph algorithms. The
GraphBLAS initiative (launched in 2013) aims to define a standard to
capture graph algorithms in the language of linear algebra - following
the footsteps of the BLAS standard which, starting four decades ago,
revolutionized scientific computing by defining constructs on dense
matrices.
In this talk, I give an overview of the GraphBLAS standard and its key
components. First, I illustrate how matrix operations on various
semirings correspond to the steps in graph algorithms. I then use
these operations to present five distinct graph algorithms: BFS,
shortest paths, clustering coefficient, PageRank, and community
detection. I discuss the connection between sparse matrix
multiplication operations and the family of worst-case optimal join
algorithms (used for computing multiway join operations). Finally, I
demonstrate the scalability of the GraphBLAS-based algorithms and list
some open problems.

Ha esetleg van magyarul nem beszélő érdeklődő, bátran jöhet, akkor 
angolul lesz. Ha nincs, akkor magyarul.
